From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes or
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman posted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one Oh
nine. Recorded live Wednesday, April 16th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by teller. It already
controls the most comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal the world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott discusses dynamic
data with Microsoft ASP senior
program manager, Scott Hunter. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And I'm sitting here
at the MVP summit in
Redmond, Washington with Scott Hunter, a
senior program manager on the
asp.net team. And Scott is
working on dynamic data right
now. We just actually came
from his dynamic data talk
that he gave to all
the asp.net MVPs. And I
had recently done a post
on dynamic data and I
was joking in the post
that I thought a small
percentage of people were going
to care about asp.net MVC,
but a huge percentage of
people were going to care
about dynamic data. Now people
are using that percentage. I
said 5% 95%, but those
numbers, I just, I just
made up, but it seems
like a lot of people
are using the data grid.
And there was a, there
was a gap that data
grid didn't do something it
needed to do. And dynamic
data just completely takes that
concept, fills it up and
extends it. Yeah, I think
the big thing that we
do in dynamic data is
we take some of the
controls today that are fairly
limited. I mean, if you
take a grid, a grid
is a great example. If
you want to customize it
really, it requires a lot
of work and that, you
know, by default you get
this great very quick page,
but as soon as you
decide, you want to go
and change the way something
works, or you want to
add some validation, there is
no validation in a grid.
So I think that's our
strongest point is, you know,
if you want to go
modify a field in a
grid, how do you do
that? You gotta go temple
size each field. You got
to put all these validation
controls in there. And one
of the big things that
we try to do with
dynamic data is look at
your data model and learn
from what, what your data
model says. It's going to
tell us, you know, what
fields are required. It's going
to show us foreign keys
and the tables they associate
with. So we can do
look ups and, and show
the nice name, not the
ID. We can show a
drop down list. We can
do things like look at
the string links and make
sure that the UI matches
the string length. If you
just do those three things
across a website today, it
means you're going to take
a grid. You're going to
turn every column into a
template column. You're going to
drag a text box in
a required validator in maybe
a compare validator. If you're
looking for an integer or
a date or something, you
want to make sure somebody
types the right value in.
And so I think one
of the things we really
do is we solve a
lot of that for you.
And we do it without
doing it with magic. You
know, a lot of, a
lot of, a lot of
fixtures you could do for
this would be okay. We're
just going to add all
this for free. And the
problem with that is as
soon as you want to
change it, what do you
do? Well, one of the
things you're gonna notice in
a dynamic data project is
there'll be a folder in
your application called dynamic data.
And if you drill into
that, there's a, there's a
directory called field templates. And
that's where all the logic
that I just talked about
is going to exist. So
if you go into that
directory, in the case of
like editing an editor, there'll
be an integer editor in
integer under edit ASC X
file in there. And inside
that file is going to
be a text box where
somebody's going to type the
integer. There'll be a required
field validator. There'll be a
compare validator to make sure
it's actually an integer. And
it probably be a re
regular expression value during there
as well. So let's say
you want to change that.
You know, you've got some
third party control vendors, rich
edit control that automatically prevent
you from typing anything other
than digits and, and enforces
no decimal points for what
you do is you go
take the integer, edit you,
drag that stuff in there,
you wire together, and that
change persists across your entire
application versus today. You would
have a, a grid or
a details you, and you
would go in and templatize
every column and then go
fix it across your entire
app. So by centralizing this
into one spot, I think
we really helped. Cause now
you're doing that in a
data grid. I've done, you
know, either a data grid
or repeat or anything like
that. You're doing it on
a, on a one instance
by one instance basis, but
you're pushing this all into
one location. So it's centralized.
The entire app can use
it, but I can say,
I want this column, which
is an integer to use
the new custom manager stuff,
but this other column right
next to it not to
Correct. Yeah. So we have
our, our built in field
templates that exist in this
directory. And if you modify
one of those, it's gonna
change your, your entire website.
But at the same time,
you can also add your
own custom ones. So let's
say it's Scott, Hanselman's integer
edit. Then what you can
do is go to your
data model. And by applying
an attribute of your data
model, you're telling us which
table in your database you
want this to apply to
and you go, well, what
if I don't want to
change it for every time
I showed that table? Well,
we also will let you
specify that anytime you're in
an individual page. So for
example, on a, on a
grid, you could go in
there and say, I want
to put a dynamic field
in. And one of the
parameters for dynamic field is
a UI hint. And in
that UI, hint, you can
actually override the attribute that
was on the model or
not even have an attribute
on the model and just
specify it there. So is
a UI hint, like if
I had a string in
the database, but I'm thinking
that that's really a URL.
What I say in the
UI, hint that this is
a URL, or is that
a differential? We actually have
a different attribute for that.
We have one called datatype.
One of the, one of
the big negatives to me
of a, of a database
today is if you look
at it from the CLR
world, once it comes into
the database, we, we just
go, it's either a date.
It's a, a numeric field,
or it's a string. And,
you know, a string could
be a social security number,
government ID. It could be
a URL and email address,
and you probably want to
deal with all those in
a different way. And so
we actually have an attribute
called data type and you
can put a data type
attribute on your data model.
And that's basically telling us
what that should be. And
some of the ones that
we have out of the
box are things like email
address, URL. Those are already
in there. You can also
add your own. So what
we do is we actually
have an enumeration that has
about 15 or 20 built
in values, but the, the
data, the data type attribute
also takes a string. So
you can do custom ones.
If, if you type in
like a URL, we'll actually
go to that field template
directory and see if we
find a control called URL.
And if we do, we'll
automatically display it, if not,
we'll fall backwards, down to
text. All right, well, let's,
let's just a good idea.
This let's do this. Let's,
let's kind of do a
pretend, hello, world application here,
but I want to, I
say file new. And I
pick the, the dynamic data
project type. I can use
the wizard if I want,
and it will build a
lot of this for me.
I can point it to
a database and pull some
information out and it'll give
me a, you know, we've
seen this on the websites
and people can look at
the screencast that I'll put
links up for and we'll
get an administration grid, edit
all the crud for free.
Let's say that one of
those fields is a string,
but I want it to
be an international phone number.
So what do I need
to do to say that
this database that has a
column that has a string
is really an international phone
number? Yeah. So what I
would do in that case
is the first thing you're
gonna do is you're going
to probably going to go
to your app code directory.
You're going to right click
and say, I want to
add a new class. Yep.
We're here at the MVP
summit. We've got a bunch
of people who've just apparently
successfully compiled an application and
decided that that's worth sharing
about. So we're, we're filming
here in the, in the
conference center wrote their first
hello world. Sorry. Anyways. So
yeah, what you do is
you go and you'd add
a new class to your
project. We support link to
see cool and energy framework,
both of these generate partial
classes for all the tables
in your database. And so
in this case, what table
are we talking? Well, let's
just say that I've got
a customer and he has
a phone number, but let's
say that they're international phone
numbers there. If we've got
a customer table. So what
we do is we'd go
in and override the customer
table, the customer object that's
automatically created in the data
model. And so I would
go add a new class,
call it customer because I,
and I make it partial.
Okay. Okay. So I've got
a link to SQL model
or linked to entities, and
it's got an automatically generated
partial customer. That's correct. I'm
making the rest of it,
the other part. Right. And,
and the reason we're recruiting
our own classes, because you
could, you could go right
into the designer file created
by the link to SQL
editor with a negative would
be. Then if you recompile
your application, you're going to
wipe that change out. So
that's, that's the whole idea
of partial and why it
was added in asp.net to,
Oh, Exactly. So we're going
to keep that little extra
bit of metadata off to
the side and another foot
in another file. And that's
correct. We're going to go
over there and, And create
that class. And one of
the negatives of the CLR
today is there's not a
great way to add a
metadata to an existing member
in a, in a partial
class. Okay. And the way
we solve that is we
actually create a, a metadata
class that maps to your
existing class. What you're going
to do is, is after
you created this customer class,
you're going to create a
customer metadata class. And then
you're going to go put
a, an attribute on your
customer class that says, Hey,
my metadata is on this
customer metadata class, Which I
assume could be anywhere in
your assemblies, In your assemblies
or in your own, all
this metadata in one place.
Exactly. You could go take
all this metadata and put
it in some library somewhere
and just go wire it
up at the, at the
end. Okay. And then what
you would do is take
any members from your class
that you want to add
metadata to. You'll just create
a blank placeholder inside of
the, the temporary class or
metadata class. Okay. So for
example, in our case, it
would be the international phone
number, international phone number. So
I create objects, international phone
number, get set. And then
on top of that, I
would actually add the data
type attribute. Okay. And since
international phone numbers, not one
of the ones that's part
of our built in enumeration.
I would open a string
up and say international phone
number. Okay. So at this
point I've taken my data
model and I've added a
little metadata class, and I'm
starting to annotate it with,
with hints that I'm going
to need, because we're trying
to keep things dry or
trying to not repeat ourselves.
We're going to say in
one place that this column
is an international phone number,
but we haven't really declared
what an international phone number
is. That's correct. We have,
we have two choices. Now
we have a, by default,
this thing's going to be
shown using our text control
because technically in the database,
it's a text field. Okay.
So we have two choices.
We can go modify the
existing text template. And if
I was going to do
that, I would load up
the text dot ASC X
dot CS file. And inside
of there, I can actually
write a simple link link
query to say, I want
to look at the attributes
that are specified on this
field and see if there's
a data type attribute. Ah,
I found a data type
attribute and it's international phone
number. Well, because of that,
I'm gonna change my rendering
now, instead of admitting just
the actual text value, how
about I throw a hyperlink
up and automatically put the
rights right stuff in front
of the hyperlink to try
to have it dial a
phone. I think I see
where you're going here. We've
declared that there's this thing,
this new data type called
international phone number. And we're
saying we can do one
of two things. We can
either piggyback it on the
existing string underscore it would
be string or textbooks, Text.
It would be text under,
it would be texts that
ASC X that's yes. Extend
the existing text box, that
dynamic text box, the ASX,
and say, within there, if
it's a text box, do
the old fashioned thing, versus
if it's an international phone
number, it needs this one
additional piece of work, correct.
Maybe a extra label or
a special validator, or show
it as a URL or
whatever. I'm guessing where you're
going with this. Or I
could make an entirely separate
ASC X that's customed international.
That's correct. The at my
other choice would be if,
if, if this type is
so different, I might have
say, I need a new
control. And so I would
go create a control in
the field tempered directory directory
called international phone number, at
which point, not only do
I, do I create the
international phone number control, but
I can also do an
under edit version and an
under insert version, which allows
you to override how it,
how we display that when
you edit and how we
display that when you enter.
Okay. So you brought up
something interesting and underscored it,
the idea that there's this
convention such that it's datatype
underscore and then the action
That's correct. So, so data
type by itself is the
display. Okay. Underscore, edit is
for editing and underscore insert
is for inserting. Okay. So
when the grid is in
that state or when the
field is in that state,
this is what we'll display.
That is correct. Okay. Because
I might want to have
a, like a rich text
type and have a really
rich text box, like free
text box.com or, you know,
like with like Telerik one
of our sponsors use like
a really complicated rich editor,
but I might want it
to be an eye frame
when it's not being edited
or display it in some
other way. Exactly. We pretty
much give you the ability
to customize as much as
you want. I actually want
to jump off for a
second and go down a
different path. Okay. We've talked
a lot about grids and,
and detailed views. Well, yeah,
there's a whole bunch of
stuff underneath this that we're
completely crossing over. Well, I
also want to talk about
the fact that we do
templates controls as well. So
one of the great controls
that was brought out in,
in asp.net three, five was
the list view control, which
for all the people that
had, you know, a lot
of folks have been using
our controls. They wanted to
use a repeater cause it
really gave them lots of
customization. But as soon as
you start trying to do
things like sorting and paging
and stuff like that, well,
you end up writing, you
know, two or 300 lines
of glue code. That's a
good point. And next thing
you know, is, is, you
know, the repeaters gotten unwieldy.
And I think that's where
literally really helps you because
it gives you all the
power of, of repeater where
basically all the markup is
controlled by you, but you
still get all the features
like sorting and paging and
stuff. Part of the control.
We also support list, view
and form view, which are
the two templates controls that
we support, which means you
don't have to feel like
you're limited to just a
grid or a point bludgeon
rates People. When they initially
saw data grid, myself included
thought, Oh, it's auto generating
a website and it's scaffolding.
And that was one way
of pigeonholing it, but it's
bigger than that. And then
I, I I've indirectly pigeonholed
you into the data grid,
but it's bigger than that.
I was talking with Peter
Blom, Peter bloom, who makes
up the validators. And he
was explaining to me that
there's so much underlying support
for, for metadata, that one
could build something entirely new
from just the underlying control
underlying classes you guys have
within dynamic data. But then
let me get too far
off, off, off the path.
So within Alyssa, I have
control over my own markup.
I could make some kind
of a list of stuff
that is not at all
a data grid. It doesn't
look anything like a database.
Correct. And that's, that's the
point I want to make
sure is I don't want
people to pigeon pigeonhole this
technology and go, Oh, we're
just grids. We're just detailed
views. No, if you want
to control the markup, you
can control all the market
performed view allows you to
place the controls anywhere on
the page. You want a
list view is, is something
that repeats over data. So
yeah, If I've got a
list for you and I'm
doing the markup, maybe with,
I want to do it
all CSS friendly and I'm
using unordered list and list
item, controlling it myself, what
do I put in my
template to get dynamic data
features? Right? So what you're
going to do is earlier
when we were talking, we
were talking about in, in
grids and details view, we
use what's called a dynamic
field. And we do that
because, you know, if the
existing controls have a bound
field or checkbox field, so
we were trying to follow
that pattern. Once you get
to the template of the
controls, we have a dynamic
control. Okay. And the dynamic
control, basically you specify the
column that you're interested in
and you can also specify
the mode. And obviously we
have three modes. We have
a read only mode. We
have a edit mode and
an insert mode. And this
makes a lot of sense
in the case of if
you're building a template for
like a list view, it's
got different templates for each
of those modes, Right? Because,
and because a new is,
is different than an, an
edit that's correct. Hold that
thought. I'm just going to
take a quick second to
thank our sponsors and we'll
be right back. Hi, it's
Scott Hanselman here. Hope you're
enjoying the show so far.
I'm coming at you from
another place in time. Sorry
to interrupt the show, but
I want to let you
know that putting together a
podcast like this every week,
isn't free. The folks that
pay the bandwidth bill is
Tellerik they make the show
possible and they also make
some pretty cool products, like
tell our excite affinity development
platform for constructing websites, community
portals, and Internet's built all
on asp.net to, Oh, so
you're using the various well-known
goodies, like master pages and
membership services, data model provider,
things that you already know.
It's pretty flexible. You've got
a very robust core that
you can customize. You can
plug in anything that you
want from complex applications, for
a CRM, or just a
little widget that displays the
weather. If you're not big
into the code thing, that's
cool to get a full
set of features out of
the box, like workflow multi-lingual
sites, content, versioning that can
all be added without code.
There's also a whole bunch
of pluggable modules and components
for news blogs, forums, polls
lists. This is all stuff
that you can do without
code. And it's pretty good
looking product as well. You've
got a nice web 2.0
administrative interface that lets you
as well as your boss.
Who's not technical and be
really productive. So check out
site finity.com and we'll get
you right back to the
show. Thanks a lot. Cause
we were talking about the
list view when you were
heading in a direction. Yeah,
I was, I was going
to talk about dynamic control
and what it really does
for you and cause that's
the heart of the system,
isn't it? Yes. Actually underlying
everything in dynamic data is
a dynamic control. Even though
I was mentioning earlier, we
have this dynamic field. If
you look at the source
code for dynamic field, all
it really does is takes
a dynamic control in itself.
And it's looking at the
grid or the detailed view
to figure out which mode
it's in. Okay. In the
case of a list, you
or a form view, you
know, you control the mode.
So as I was going
to say is when you
have a dynamic control, what
you're going to specify as
the column you want to
work on and then mode
B it read only insert
edit. And what that really
w what we look at
is we look at, okay,
you say that the column
is we're going to go
look at your database and
see what the model says
for, for that Columbo. It's
an encourager. Okay. So that's
going to tell us to
go look up the integer
field template inside of our
field template directory. Okay. And
then based on the mode,
we're going to pull the
rights, the right version of
integer. And so basically that's
specifying it. You're basically telling
us which field simple to
use. So you still get
all the benefits of being
fully template in control of
your markup, whatnot, and you
get the power of dynamic
data still. So I think
that's really the, an area
that I, I want people
to make sure that they
understand. And I've got one
more area that, that I
think people always, when I
see our first demos, most,
most of the first demos
of dynamic data are this
scaffold. I mean, basically you,
you drag a model in
a register your data model
and with like one line
of code, you've got this
full application built up and,
and the audience we're missing
there is what if I
have existing webpages. Right. Exactly.
And that was the question,
how do I add an
emic data to existing sites
without messing stuff up? How
do I put my toe
in the pool and see
if the water is nice
without the accepting it for
all of my data access.
Right. And I think we,
we, we give you that
benefit. So I don't want
to go through all the
steps of actually what you
would do. I mean, the
overall steps are you drag
this dynamic data directory in,
you make a few changes
in web config. Right. What
I really want to get
down to is I've got
this page in my application.
What do I change in
the page? Exactly. So what
we have this new control,
kind of like a script
manager, we now have a
dynamic data manager and you
put this control in your
page and then any controls
that you want to have
our functionality, you registered with
this control. So for example,
I'm going to add a
dynamic data manager to my
page. Okay. And I've got
a grid view, and I've
got a list for you.
And I want both, they
work already. They already work.
Okay. And I want to
turn on this magic It'll
template stuff that we've been
talking about just for a
couple of things. Okay. So
what I'll do is I'll
go and, and let's say,
I just wanna turn dynamic
data on the list view.
Okay. So in my page,
under a knit, in my
code behind file, I'll say
dynamic data manager, one dot
register control, and I'll specify
the name of the list
view. Okay. And once you've
done that, you basically flip
the switch to turn on
dynamic data access for the
list view. So then I
can start using a dynamic
fields. Yeah. Yes. Dynamic control
inside of your, your field
inside of your templates and
your list view. Okay. That's
all it takes, that's it?
So there's a couple of
other folders that when you
see underneath this dynamic data
folder, I noticed that when
I made a scaffolding, I
had a paging and filtering
and all those things happen
automatically. Yeah. We have a,
we have a couple of
directors. One of the, one
of the directories is called
content content is as we
started building dynamic data, we
rented this problem where we
wanted a pager. We wanted
some other controls and stuff.
And so what we did
is we created a directory
called content and gave you
the source code to those
controls as well, because we
said, you know, not only
do we want to give
you a, a pager, not
only do we want to
give you a control for
doing a drop down list
of, of filters, but we
want to make sure one
of our goals and data
is never to make you
feel like we've, we've built
something that you're gonna fall
off a cliff on where
it's like, okay, I'm going
to use it up to
this point and I'm going
to die. That's the thing
as someone who, I mean,
I guess I've only worked
for the company for six
months, but I always, I
gave a talk at dynamic
data in New York. And I
was saying how most Microsoft
demos involve someone dragging something
onto the page. You get
drag a data grid over
hook, some stuff up, and
then you wave your hands
and you push five. And
like, Hey, look, I did
a complete application. And then
by the time the audience
is saying, Hey, but wait,
I want a customer, Hey,
you'd left the stage at
that point. And it's over.
And when I, when I
think about that, kind of,
that kind of canonical old
style example where, Oh, it's
totally customizable until it's completely
not customizable. And when it's,
it's cool that there's more
and more people. I mean,
you haven't been in the
company all that long either.
I guess that more and
more people are getting to
the point that we had
this pain as people on
the outside. So now we're
coming inside to make sure
that that doesn't happen to
anyone else. True. It's kind
of funny because we actually
had some raised eyebrows when
we first started working on
this, because some of the
feedback that I know the
asp.net team had moving into
ASP was let's make a
blink project, start with the
least amount of files as
possible. And so here you
create this dynamic data project
and we get this directory
full of all these files,
right? And the reason we
could stretch your full, all
these files is instead of
hard coding, all of these
things. Absolutely. And your application.
How about we just give
you the source code to
all the pieces you might
want to touch and tweak.
Exactly. So if you don't
like the way our filters
look, yeah. Go in the
content directory, modify the filter.
If you don't like the
way the pager looks, it's
just a user control in
there and modify the behavior.
If you don't like the
feel template, that's the whole
point of the field templates
was to actually give you
the source code, you know,
right now, a bound field
or a checkbox field, or
an image field. You have
no control over those. As
soon as you exceed their,
their capabilities. You're done. Yeah.
Speaking of images, you showed
me a demo that I
thought was pretty cool, where
you were using a database
where one of the columns
had a binary format that
had some funky picture in
it. It was new, not
an, it was a nonstandard
thing. It was like a,
not a gift, not a
PNG was an old style
thing. So just assume that
you have a database with
many columns and one of
the columns has something, something
funky in, it could be
a PDF, could be a
data format, that's your own.
And you want to invent
a visualization for that. You,
you made one called DB
image. And I thought that
the way that you had
created that was pretty interesting.
Yeah. So w w so
what dynamic data does is,
is, you know, as, as
I mentioned, at the beginning
of the, of the talk
we were talking about, we
look at the data model
and try to figure out
what we should show for
each of the fields. Obviously
it's something to binary. We
have no way to visualize
that. And so by default,
we hide it, but just
because we were hiding it
by default, doesn't mean you
can unhide it. And the
library you're talking about is
called DB image. And it
was basically my attempt at
making a nice field template
control that would display images
out of a database. Yeah.
And so the, that works
is you go and put
your own field template control
and, and understands that type.
And then on your model,
you're going to go and
put one of those UI
hints. We talked about earlier
and say, when this, when
this column shows up, I
want to use DB image
for this column. And then
will, instead of hiding that
column, now we're going okay.
Since you've told us, you
know how to display it,
right. We'll, we'll turn that
rule off and we'll go
find the field templates that
supports what you said. Suddenly
you knew what this thing
is exactly. But because it
was an image, I thought
it was interesting because you
had to do two things.
You had to render the
image tag, the image source
equals, but then that source
equals had to point to
somewhere, it had to actually
go in and get the
image. So you ended up
writing a handler that would
go back into the database
and get that as well.
Yes. And I'm actually really
proud of the handle army.
And that's one of the
things I would recommend somebody,
if, if you, if you
want to see some, some
neat code, go look at
the handler from the what's
cool about the handlers we
started going in this path
of, I want to show
an image from the database.
Well, I don't want to
write SQL, right? Because as
soon as I write SQL,
I'm making assumptions about your
database, right. And you know,
this great feature that came
out in.net three, five was
link. And so suddenly I
can build this link query.
And by building a link
query, I'm not locked to
SQL server. Is it Oracle?
Is it my SQL? I
don't have to worry about
that because whatever provider they
have on the back end
is going to automatically convert
the LINQ query to the
correct, you know? Right. It'll
just work out. So it's
a, it's a comfortable layer
of abstraction. That's, you know,
we know about the databases
we're using linked to SQL
or linked entities, but we
don't know that much. We,
don't not too intimate with
the data. Right? So if
you, if you look at
the source code for the
handle there, all we're really
doing there is specifying the
primary key of the, the
table and the column that
contains the image. And then
if you look at the
source code, it's actually dynamically
building a link query. So
most of the time when
you see people doing link
queries, you know, you're spilled
some texturing, but this is
actually a dynamic link query.
So if you want to
see an example of how
you would actually build an
expression tree to, to build
a query by hand, that's
what this does. But as
I said, the neat thing
about that is it means
that it's not tied to
any particular storage format. This
should work on Oracle. It
should work on the framework.
There is no tie in.
So that's something I don't
think you could have done
a pre.net three, five before
I would have had to
have an Oracle version of
SQL version, a my SQL
version, et cetera. And, and
link has really allowed me
to pull that out. So
all of this stuff that
he's been talking about so
far is going to be
available in an upcoming update
to the, to the framework.
So people will get this
in their hands as soon
as possible. What are some
of the things that you're
starting to think about where
you could take this? Are
we gonna be able to
use this in Silverlight? Am
I going to able to
use this and other, other
places? That's one of the
things that we, we, when
we started working with this,
we actually met with a
bunch of other teams at
Microsoft and started talking about
a lot of the concepts
and stuff we were talking
about, make sense way outside
of asp.net. And so all
these attributes that you're going
to put on your data
model to tell dynamic data
what to do. They don't
live in system that web,
they live in system dot
component model, that data annotations,
and that was done on
purpose because we thought other
teams want to use this.
So the already I can
already tell you that some
other teams like the Silverlight
team are looking at maybe
supporting this in the future
where you would take these
same attributes, spread them all
of your data model. And
then when you render your
data with Silverlight, you would
get the same validation and
all the other behaviors that,
that we support. Very cool.
I'd like to be able
to do this over maybe
an existing data model that
I've got, maybe I have
my own RM framework, or
I'm using an hibernator, you
know, just plain old objects
of some kind and somehow
be able to annotate them
and enable it such that
I could do this kind
of dynamicism. Yeah. Well, one
of the things that we're
working on is first off
our  for sure supports
entity framework and linked to
SQL. We are trying to
put the right hooks in.
So if you're subsonic or
somebody else, and you have
your own data model, you
would have a way to
write a provider to plug
in, and we would be
able to figure out what
your data looks like to
give you an example of
what that really means is
obviously part of what our
technology does is it looks
at your data model and
crawls over all the tables
and stuff, and then built
an internal abstraction that contains
just the information that we
need. And so that's the
hook we're trying to provide
is you would write that
call where, okay, walk over
your model and fill in
this data structure we give
you. And then based on
that, you know, it should
enable a lot of the
other functionality, that dynamic data,
It's a generic method to
provide the metadata about your
model and saying, tell me
about yourself. That's correct. Reflection
over the database. Right. And
for version one is probably
gonna be some old level
hooks, but for version two,
I think we're going to
try to do more. So
that's a scenario that you're
gonna definitely try to push
for, for too, for the
average Joe, but maybe we'll
figure out some funky, advanced
way to do it for
the first time. Yeah. I
think for the first release,
if you're, if you're a
subsonic or in irony or
whatever, there'll be, you know,
you would be able to
write a provider. I don't
think the average Joe would
be able to write that
provider. It's going to require
some, some hardcore technical knowledge
to do that. But I
think when, when V2 comes
around, hopefully we can just
consume an arbitrary collection of
objects. Very cool. So at
the time that this podcast
is going to be coming
out here at the, at
the end of the second
week of April, folks can
go and get a preview
of dynamic data up at
COVID gallery. And I'll put
links to all of the
different things, the screencast, your
blog, David devil's blog up
on, on the Hansel minutes
show site. And then soon
we'll, we'll be able to
have this built into the
system. So we won't have
to download any previous. That's
correct. You can grab it
on code gallery right now.
It'll be up there until
we actually our TM. Okay.
And our actual plan is
probably to keep updating, even
past our TMS. So we're
going to move right into
version two, and we're going
to continue to use code
gallery to extend the first
version. It's kind of like
the ASP net Ajax stuff,
where it was built in,
but they're still going and
they're making changes and those
will be web downloadable at
some point. That's correct. I,
I really hope that, you
know, as you said, you
know, new to Microsoft, I'm
going To Microsoft. And one
of the things that I
think that Microsoft needs more
of is none of these,
you know, we shipped two
CTPs a year and then
you ship it and don't
have a lot of feedback
cycles. We'd much rather have
a lot of our new
code out there for the
public to see more often
and give us more feedback
on our code can only
be as good as the
feedback we get. So certainly,
and you, and I don't
know enough to not try
to do these things. So
the fact that you're making,
you know, attempting to do
this and get that, get
that loop tightened up is
pretty cool. And hopefully they
won't beat us down. They've
been pretty accepting this far.
So I'm happy with it.
I think that dynamic data,
you know, kind of juxtaposing
it with the MVC is
just another example of some
of this stuff. Often new
guys are trying to really
make happen inside of Microsoft.
So I'm pretty stoked about
it. And I'm gonna actually
try to do a series
of screencast and videos and
stuff and put them up
on the closer to the
release. Great. Thanks a lot.
Cool. Thanks a lot. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week.